***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

What is a programming language?
Answer: A set of grammatical rules for instructing a computer or computing device to perform specific tasks.

What is a JDK composed of? Define each components?
Answer: JDK is composed of; Java Runtime Environment (JRE), An interpreter/loader (Java), A compiler (javac) &
An archiver (jar).

What is an IDE?
Answer: Integrated Development Environment is a software application that enables users to write and debug Java
programs more easily.

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
Answer: Eclipse, NetBeans & IntelliJ IDEA

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer: Life cycle of a java program tells us what happens right from the point when we type
source code in a text editor to the point that source code is converted into machine code (0’s and 1’s).

What is a class?
Answer: A class is a blueprint for creating objects

What is an object?
Answer: An object is an instance of the class

What is the entry point of a Java project?
Answer: Main method

Why is the main() method static?
Answer: So that JVM can invoke it without instantiating the class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer: Parent class

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer: Path is set for java tools in java programs like java and javac, which are used to compile your code.
Whereas, Classpath is used by System or Application class loader to locate and load compile Java bytecodes stored in the
'. class file'.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer: Abstract class can have abstract and non-abstract methods. Interface can have only abstract methods.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer: No, To implement features of an abstract class, we inherit subclasses from it and create objects of the subclass.
A subclass must override all abstract methods of an abstract class.

What is Access Modifier?
Answer: Are keywords in that set the accessibility of classes, methods, and other members.

What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer: Object-Oriented Programming. Abstraction - identifying only the required characteristics of
an object ignoring the irrelevant details. Encapsulation - Hiding/wrapping data. Inheritance -
It is the mechanism in java by which one class is allowed to inherit the features(fields and methods) of another class.
Polymorphism - perform a single action in different ways.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer: Package is the collection of Java classes and interfaces. java.lang

What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer: Application Programming Interface set of functions that allows applications to access data and
interact with external software components and operating systems. XML & JSON

Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer: No. To prevent ambiguity

What is method overloading? List all of the different ways to overload.
Answer: Method overloading is if a class has multiple methods having same name but different in parameters
- The number of parameters in two methods.
- The data types of the parameters of methods.
- The Order of the parameters of methods.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer: Try-Catch. Put the code you want to run in the try block, and any Java exceptions that the
code throws are caught by one or more catch blocks.

What is static keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:The static keyword in Java is used to share the same variable or method of a given class.
Users can apply static keywords with variables, methods, blocks, and nested classes.
The static keyword belongs to the class than an instance of the class

What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer: final is used for restricting some functionalities. During inheritance, we must declare methods with
the final keyword for which we are required to follow the same implementation throughout all the derived classes

Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer: Final - is used for restricting some fuctionalities.
Finally - is used with a try/catch block and guarantees that a section of code will be executed,
even if an exception is thrown.
Finalize - It is a method that the Garbage Collector always calls just before the deletion/destroying the object which
is eligible for Garbage Collection, to perform clean-up activity.

What is a constructor?
Answer: A constructor is used to create an object

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer: Yes

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer: The Class

What is "this" keyword in Java? When would we use it?
Answer: 'this' is used to refer to the object whos method or constructor being called.
'this' is to eliminate the confusion between class attributes and parameters with the same name

What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer: 'super' is a keyword used to access data of the parent class.
an example could be that vehicle and car both classes have
a common property color. If we print color property, it will print the color of current class by default.

What does JVM stand for?
Answer: Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer: No

What version of Java are you using?
Answer: 11.0.14

What does JAR stand for?
Answer: Java Archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer: JDK is a software development kit to develop applications in Java.
JVM executes Java byte code and provides an environment for executing it.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer: JRE is an environment, in order to execute any Java program locally.
JRE is an environment, in order to execute any Java program locally.

Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Answer: Compile-time errors are the errors that occurred when we write the wrong syntax.
Run-time errors are the errors that occur during the execution and after compilation.

What is heap?
Answer: Heap is the memory used to store objects.

How does Java manage its memory?
Answer: Heap and Stack

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer: What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?

What is Singleton class?
Answer: A class that can have only one object (an instance of the class) at a time.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer: Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer: While a condition is true and only while the condition is true, loop will continue looping.
Do While executes the loop first, and then checks the condition to see if it should continue looping.

What is Enum?
Answer: An enum is a special "class" that represents a group of constants

What is Iterator?
Answer: An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet.

Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer: Integer as it is an object whereas int is primitive data type and takes less memory.

Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer: The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in the String pool.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer: The process of invoking a sequence of constructors upon initialization of a class object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer: Serial garbage collector uses a single thread for garbage collection process while the
parallel garbage collector uses multiple threads for the garbage collection.

What does JIT stand for?
Answer: Just In Time

Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer: Java garbage collection is the process by which Java programs perform automatic memory management.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer: No

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer: Stack is used to store the order of method execution and local variables
while heap memory stores the objects

What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer: It allows an executing Java program to examine or "introspect" upon itself,
and manipulate internal properties of the program. Reflection gives us information about the class to which an
object belongs and also the methods of that class which can be executed by using the object.

What is multithreading in Java?
Answer: Multithreading refers to a process of executing two or more threads simultaneously

What is synchronization in Java?
Answer: The capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource.

What is a Framework?
Answer: A framework is a structure that you can build software on.

What are the testing Frameworks available in Java?
Answer: JUnit, JBehave, Serenity, Selenium, TestNG

What are jUnit and testNG?
Answer: Testing framework in java

What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer: gson, jackson-annotations, jackson-core, jackson-databind, java-json, javax.json, mongo-java-driver,
mysql-connector-java, protobuf-java & testng.

What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer: The concept in which objects get other required objects from outside.

Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer: Static binding uses Type information for binding while Dynamic binding uses Objects to resolve binding.